---
title: "Airtable"
published: true
date: "2019-04-01"
---

This week I fell back in love with a tool. At Renga we were reevaluating all of our tools, because we are doing a “remote only” April.  We had been trying to find a CRM (customer relationship management) software. We wanted to use this software to track all of our leads, current clients and past clients. Sometimes things can get lost in the weeds and we wanted a quick way to visualize where contracts were at. After googling “best lightweight CRMs” and searching for way too long, we couldn’t find one we liked. 

Then I thought about try ing to make one in Airtable. Airtable is a fully customizable database tool. You can view all of your data in grid view (which looks like a spreadsheet), Kanban view (think Trello) and more that I haven’t even explored. 

It’s hard to explain how much you can do with Airtable, so you should just check out their Universe, where people have shared what they are creating with Airtable. If you’re a developer, you can get API documentation specific to each base you have, because of this some people have used Airtable as a lightweight CMS (Content Management System). 

Once you start getting comfortable with Airtable you can take it to the next level with Zapier, a tool that connects all your other tools. For example when someone submits an entry from the contact forms on the Renga website. It imports them to an “Action required” tab on our Sales CRM base in Airtable. It simultaneously notifies our sales channel on Slack.

Oh right I forgot to mention… Airtable is free. I am confident you can make something awesome with it, let me know what you make.